# Idle Time

As I have previously mentioned, I was on leave for three days last week. The reason was that Monday and Tuesday were public holidays, so for the meagre price of three days' leave, I could take a break of nine days from work. I think a lot of my peers would have gone on a little trip somewhere close by. I considered it, but a last minute poker game on Tuesday night put an end to my dithering. I would rather win money than spend it. Even if I had lost money, it would have in all likelihood cost me less than going on a trip.

So that left me with three days on my own, because the missus was unable to take leave with me. In the past, whenever I had some time off, I would try to make it worth my while. I would try to set goals and be productive, but honestly, it seldom worked. Worthwhile projects take time to do. That is never going to change. If you can hack something up over a couple of days, it is seldom going to be of much consequence. Anyway, this time I took an actual break and did almost absolutely nothing, and it was wonderful.

So much so that going back to work became a bit of a drag. Don't get me wrong, I enjoy working at [Nugit](http://nugit.co). There are some really nice people there, and I have a lot of fun most days. But - and here is the big "but", I _have_ to do it. I know that, among all the human beings who have ever lived from the dawn of our species till now, I am incredibly privileged to be able to work as a computer engineer at this particular point in history when my skill set is in high enough demand that I seldom have difficulty finding a job. I do appreciate it, of course, but I still need a job and I would like to not need one. Before you call me entitled, just understand that I do not expect this to come without work. I am willing to work hard so that I won't need to do so anymore.

So what would I do if I did not need a job? Well, I imagine I would just do absolutely nothing again, for between a month to a year. I imagine after that I would get bored, and then I would want to go back to school and study. I was not serious about it at all in my youth, and I would like a second go at it. Here's hoping Nugit gets acquired or IPOs before I am too old to do that, though realistically speaking, I would be unlikely to be able to retire in either case.
