# Love: Achievement Unlocked

So I skipped another day without publishing anything. The excuse this time was that it was my first of three days' leave. I had already planned on spending the first day gaming, the second day on a movie marathon, and the third day doing whatever the fuck I felt like. Yesterday was the first day, so I spent the whole day gaming, which just goes to show that I should not do that on any regular basis. It totally eats up the day. I hardly even spoke to my wife. Today, I watched 3 movies, including Deadpool, which was really entertaining. Anyway, back to the regularly scheduled dose of me. [Two days ago](http://attaboy.me/#posts/blag/6), I promised to write more about my views on love, so here we go. This will be the last one.

A lot of people like to ask questions about how to find their true love, or how to recognise them once they've found them, or how to keep them once they're sure it's "the one". I will give my answer to all of these questions, but first let us examine what they mean.

I think that the concept of there being a "true love" or "the one" is ludicrous. There are more than 7 billion people on the planet. If there can be only one person you are meant to spend your life with, your "soul mate", as it were, what are the chances that you will meet him or her? Let us leave aside additional complications like time. Let us assume that the person you are meant to be with is always the same age as you and not, say, born a hundred years ago. Let us also assume that the population of the world is evenly distributed from the ages of 1-70. That means you have to find your ideal mate within a pool of about 100 million people.

If you have to meet them while you are between the ages of 14-50, say, that gives you 36 years to meet "the one". Even if you were awake for 24 hours, met one new person every minute, knew instantly when you've met your true love, and you did nothing else for 36 years, you would have roughly a 1 in 5 chance of meeting the right person. In other words, given the previous assumptions (which make it more likely for people to meet "the one"), it's probable that 80% of the entire human population alive today are or will be with the wrong partner.

Even leaving aside the sheer odds against anyone finding the one true love that the stories speak of, the idea that there is one person out there who is perfect for you and all you have to do is find them in order to be happy is an extremely harmful one. It makes it really hard to deal with disagreements in relationships. Every time you fight, you tend to start looking. Surely, if you are fighting, then she must not be perfect for you. Surely, if he is Mr Right, then you would never fight. This attitude of not having to work for a good romantic relationship is implicit in the language. You "find" the one. You "fall" in love. You get "swept off your feet". It is always something that happens to you, not something you do.

I don't believe in any of that anymore, if ever I did. I think true love is not found, it is built. You don't fall in love, you _achieve_ it. Nothing of value comes without effort. Why is it any different with love? I did not find my wife, I _decided_ that she was the one. After we had gotten to know each other and decided we were worth the effort, she _chose_ me and I _chose_ her. We _built_ our love together. The thing that exists between my wife and I is not something that glitters on the surface. It is enduring and born of deep regard built over a decade of kindness and giving. It is not a flower that fades within a week. It is an oak that weathers the centuries. It is not a flash of lightning that stuns you and then disappears. It is the steady, sustaining presence of the sun. Attraction is shallow and fleeting. Love is profound and endures.

If you find something shiny and it loses its lustre, it becomes less valuable and you throw it away. If you sculpt and polish something until it becomes a thing of beauty, you will treasure it forever.
