# The Beginning of the End

The [last time](#posts/blag/10) I blogged, I was whining that working late hours was interfering with my attempt to create the habit of writing 100 words a day. Well, that habit went down the shitter. At that time, in February 2016, I was trying to bang [this](#posts/fiction/Vampire Tales/0) out. I don't think it's awesome fiction by any means, but it says what was in my head, and it would have been really difficult to do if I had tried to just write it in the evenings after work. My job was pretty taxing. The only reason why I was able to finish it yesterday, was because I have since resigned from that job.

Leaving [Nugit](https://www.nugit.co) was not an easy decision to make. I have been with that company since we had like 4 people, and we have grown it into a company of about 40. That, I think, was no mean feat. Before I resigned, I was the second oldest employee there, and, at 2.5 years, it is the longest I have ever been at any company. Probably a third of the people currently working there were hired by me, so I think I can in all modesty say that I have had a lot to do with the way the company currently is. I still have a lot of love for the people there, especially those who were around during the early battles.

So why did I decide to leave then? There were a few reasons, but mainly I was just tired. I went from being an engineer to being the head of engineering. It was not something I aspired to. I have always been more interested in engineering than leadership. Nevertheless, I think I was the most qualified to assume that position at that time, and so I did. I did some things well, and some things not so well. I will talk more about what I have learned about leadership when I have thought about it some more. For now, let me just say that it turned out to be unexpectedly rewarding. Where I used to think that being management is boring and sucks balls, I am now rather less hostile to taking on such a role. Having said that, if you are in it for the greater good rather than for personal power, then it is probably going to be stressful and tiring.

That is why I am now on a month-long sabbatical. I figured I deserved a bit of a break before moving on to the next gig, which I am incidentally pretty excited about. This is because I will be joining the [most powerful engineering team in Singapore](https://www.techinasia.com/singapore-power-sau-sheong). Mostly because of all the puns I would be able to make. Just thinking about it leaves me feeling energised. In the meantime, other than having a good rest, I intend to use this month to learn more about machine learning, write a little bit, and have a good think about my future.
