# The Crapsack World of Vampires

So you think you know what vampires are like? Where did you get your knowledge from? Dracula? Anne Rice? Buffy? Twi-fucking-light? Most people, when they think about vampires, imagine some gaunt, romantic aristocrat. They think vampires are sexy, tortured by their immortality, just waiting for the right nondescript teenage girl to show up and change their world. What utter rubbish. What could an adolescent possibly have to offer that would interest an immortal? Would you date someone a hundredth of your age? If you are thirty, that would be a baby less than a year old. Leaving aside the physical incompatibility, the sheer gap in experience would make most mortals completely uninteresting to an immortal in any prolonged relationship. No, you know nothing about vampires.

When you have finished reading this, you will know a whole lot more.

Let us first re-examine some characteristics of vampires that are widely agreed upon in fiction.

1. They survive on human blood.

2. They are stronger than humans.

3. They do not die unless destroyed.

4. Sunlight, fire and decapitation can destroy them. This is, by the way, a no-brainer. If vampires had not had some crippling vulnerability not shared by humans, they would have taken over the world and made cattle of humans, given that the previous points are true. Vampires that sparkle in the sun but who are otherwise unharmed by it is the stupidest idea to ever enter vampire lore.

5. They can choose to turn a human into one of them by letting the human imbibe their blood.

6. The lore does not always agree on this, but, leaving aside for the moment the question of how I know this to be true, vampires grow stronger with age.

7. This is not really a characteristic of fictional vampires, but an observation: Humanity has had the idea of blood drinking devils since the dawn of recorded history.

If we take these as true, what can we logically deduce? If they are truly immortal and they have been hiding amongst humanity since before the dawn of recorded history, what would a modern vampire be like?

First of all, let us observe that vampires are more like the infected than a species. They cannot reproduce amongst themselves. They require new hosts to reproduce. It seems likely, therefore, that at some time in the distant past, there was a Patient Zero.

OK, so at some time in the distant past, by some quirk of biology, perhaps a mutant virus, a vampire arrived on the earth. He or she must have infected others, or there wouldn't be any around now. However, let us also remember that vampires are immortal. Humans reproduce to perpetuate their bloodlines, to produce heirs who will continue after they are gone. Vampires have an unlimited lifespan, so heirs are unnecessary.

When a vampire makes another vampire, he makes a competitor for food. So why would any reasonably intelligent vampire do so anyway? Let us assume that the first vampires were randomly created. In other words, there was a random mix of personalities among them. Presumably, most of their personalities would match the average human personality, with its constant need for the company of other humans. How many humans does a vampire need to kill to survive? The lore varies, but let's make the conservative estimate that a vampire needs to kill one human over a month. It is not true, but it will do for now.

A hunter-gatherer tribe of about 100 individuals would _probably_ be able to sustain a solitary vampire indefinitely, with its depredations chalked up to disease amongst its victims. If a vampire were careful in harvesting its prey from different family groups, the tribe as a whole would probably not suspect anything. It would have been a lean and lonely existence, and our hypothetical vampire would have had to run around a lot within the tribe's territory so that it didn't exhaust any particular family group.

Any vampire who felt the curse of loneliness too frequently and keenly would likely have created too many vampires for the tribe to support and ended up either driving the tribe into extinction and then starving or being discovered and hunted down by the tribe. What does this select for? The ability to extrapolate future conditions from current circumstance and plan accordingly. That, and complete sociopathy. That is, if vampirism had its origins during the hunter-gatherer phase of human prehistory.

What if vampirism had originated after the invention of agriculture? I imagine that even if that were not true, there would have been a vampiric renaissance of sorts after the invention of agriculture and the appearance of larger human settlements. Even among a group of sociopathic individuals, there must have been some who desired companionship from time to time, and some of them must have figured out that more humans could support more vampires. Alas, it is a gambit doomed to failure. If you were looking for someone to ease the loneliness of your immortal existence, you would likely select individuals with a pleasant disposition, which usually comes from empathy. Empathetic individuals would in turn have been more likely to find their parasitic immortality a burden and desired more companions to ease that burden. This vicious cycle would have inevitably led to... well, cue pitchforks and torches again, only this time, in sufficient numbers to stand a good chance of taking down the vampires.

Once more, the environment would have selected for the most cautious and sociopathic of personalities to survive. The individuals who did not care about taking lives to survive. The ones who always planned ahead and stayed hidden. The ones who required no company. The ones who... killed less circumspect individuals wherever they found them? Of course. Such a conclusion is inescapable. If one has eternity to lose, then even slight risks must become a virtual certainty. Far better to take no risks at all and ruthlessly eliminate anyone who could potentially alert the prey to one's own existence either through carelessness or out of loneliness.

How does one do so? Just about every strategy must have been tried at some point. There must have been some who attempted to use mortals against others by exposing them. I suspect that this would have invited swift retribution from every other vampire who heard about it. Given that using humans as cat's paws was not an option, the only remaining option would have been direct ambush. There would probably have been alliances of vampires against other vampires, but those must have been nervous affairs between the less sophisticated and powerful ones. Moreover, even if such an alliance proved victorious against its target, it would have quickly deteriorated after the victory as natural vampiric sociopathy reasserted itself. The more trusting ones simply would not have survived. Remember: these creatures predate the concept of honour. In fact, I rather suspect one of them may have invented and popularised the concept among humans so as to handicap any new vampires that were created.

Conspiracy theory much? Perhaps, but entirely justified. Let us continue on our guided tour of vampiric prehistory. As time passed, the surviving vampires would have grown ever stronger and more cunning, moulded by the constant scheming against their fellow immortals. In the earliest days, it may have been possible for a sufficiently gifted new vampire to survive or evade the malicious attentions of his elders. However, as the less talented were weeded out by competition and only the most cunning and adaptable individuals survived, the gap in experience between a new vampire and an ancient would have grown too large for the fledgling, no matter how gifted, to surmount. There would eventually have come a time when only the most cunning and ruthless of the ancients still survived.

As human societies grew larger and more complex, some vampires must have seen the advantage that could be gained against other immortals by controlling the actions of humans. They would have amassed human material wealth so that they could directly control humans without resorting to force or coercion. With that control, they could have hounded other vampires to death without ever revealing their existence. Lairs of unwary enemies could have been destroyed during the day as part of normal human activity. Population densities could have been influenced. Wars could have been waged. An enemy could have been weakened by short rations before the final coup de grâce was delivered by vampiric hands. Again, there would have been a great culling of the immortals. Again, only the cleverest and most ruthless would have endured, as they adapted to the new conditions for survival.

So, what do we know so far? Ancient vampires, if they still exist, must be strong, smart, ruthless and very, very rich. Very well, then. What about not so ancient vampires? Is there a possibility that they also exist? Are all the surviving 20th century vampires prehistoric monsters? Could there not have been any reason for the ancient ones to sire younger vampires? Well, I do not know all the reasons, but I do know that they do exist, because I am one of them. I was sired by one of the aforementioned prehistoric monsters about 200 years ago in Southern China. I do not know why she sired me. I do not know how old she is, or where she came from. I do not know anything about her, other than that her strength and wealth and power are incalculable. I also know that she is engaged in an unending silent struggle against others of her kind. She is utterly inscrutable, as all the ancients must be. When she made me, she told me some of what I have just revealed about life as a vampire. The rest I have deduced for myself. Other than that initial lesson, which included the strict injunction not to make more of our kind, the only words I have received from her have been commands.

Do this, or do this not. Be there at this time and do what you will. Even those have been rare, and they have grown rarer. My sire is a subtle creature. She does not generally have to resort to actual, direct communication. My guess is that she analysed my personality to ten decimal places before she decided to sire me and knows exactly how I would react to any given situation. Once, and only once, have I deliberately tested her. Given that I, too, am a ruthless sociopathic monster, it was inevitable that I would try to rebel against her control. It was only a decade after she had turned me. I had feigned utter obedience prior to that, carrying out any of her orders to the letter. I lived well, as an idle owner of a plantation in Southeast Asia. Now and then, funds would arrive from my sire, to be invested in this or that venture. I started preparing for escape about 3 years into it, diverting some surplus resources into various other banks and investments. I took no long trips to establish new identities. I did everything sporadically, through human proxies, most of whom disappeared after they had accomplished their mission. I planned everything. At every stage, I had multiple options. There were contingencies upon contingencies. There were decoys and red herrings for anyone who wished to track me. There were multiple eventual destinations and identities, and even I did not know which I would choose. After 7 years of planning, I disappeared. When I arrived at my isolated sheep farm in New Zealand, after following a circuitous and convoluted route with randomly picked stops and no two days spent in the same place over 5 years of travelling, she was waiting for me.

The last stage of my journey had been on foot, in the middle of winter, and had taken two days, even with vampiric strength. And the bitch was sitting, waiting for me, when I opened the door. Instinctively, I turned and ran, but collided with her after two steps. It was like running headlong into a granite wall. Without a change in expression, she broke all my limbs and locked me in the hidden vault which was to be my resting place. She had greatly reinforced it too, so that I could not leave it unaided. Oh, and she had taken my stash of gold. Nice. When she let me out a month later, I had all but gone mad with starvation and sensory deprivation. She fed me some poor human wretch and calmly told me where to go next, and then disappeared.

When I was myself again, I went directly to my other destinations, none of which had been touched. I figured that the risk of punishment was minimal, because she would know from my lack of stealth that I was not attempting to escape. There were only two explanations I have come up with for her being able to accomplish what she did. Either she had been monitoring me and started following my trail almost immediately after I started to escape, which I seriously doubt, or she has, as I said, figured my personality to ten decimal places and knew exactly what I would do before I did.

Regardless, the point had been made and I would never attempt to cross her again. I knew, even without her saying it, that my next transgression would be my last. I also knew that she must have been counting on that. That and the fact that I would feel her eyes on me no matter what I did from then on. So I resigned myself to my fate and did as I was told. That was pretty much my origin story. And now, to return to the topic of vampires in general.

Much of what I have said about the ancient ones was conjecture, for I have only ever conversed with my own sire. I have on occasion worked with other fledglings of my brood, but only rarely. We do not converse much, because it is not in our nature to do so and because there was nothing to be gained from conversation. Once, and only once, have I seen other elders, and that was when I, and five others of our brood, were directed to cooperate with seven other vampires, minions of another ancient, to hunt down a starving ancient who had gone to ground in the African rainforest.

I doubt that there was an alliance or any overt collusion between my sire and theirs. Vampires, especially the ancient ones, just do not work in this way. My guess is that the adversary had simply chosen an inferior strategy and lost ground over the millennia of perpetual strife between them. Thus, both of the survivors, having recognised that the endgame was in sight, simply followed the only logical course of action and directed their minions to cooperate. As it turned out, we were all just cannon fodder. Hunting down an ancient one, no matter how starved, is a dangerous enterprise. Twelve of us went into the forest, with an abundance of modern equipment and weaponry, as well as the strength, patience and cunning of immortals, to hunt a single ancient who was starving and had no equipment. Over three months, she attacked us nine times, either just at twilight or just after dawn, when we were at our weakest. Each time, she managed to kill one of ours by bare-handed decapitation before retreating with multiple gunshot wounds. Each time, we burnt our dead and destroyed their weapons, for vampire blood was a powerful elixir and we could not risk letting her get any.

We knew that most of us were doomed, of course, but we dared not turn from our mission, for our fear of our sires was greater than our fear of the enemy. I received more instructions from my sire over radio then than in the previous two centuries combined. Almost every night, we were directed to relocate to a particular set of GPS coordinates. Sometimes, we were instructed to cluster together, other times to spread out in a particular formation with detailed instructions on who went where and what to do if one of us was attacked. We were never attacked when we had instructions. My guess is that the instructions were given to deny the adversary the chance to go near human settlements and gain strength as a result. My other guess is that the times when we were left to our own devices were deliberate, so as to allow the adversary openings for attack and thereby wear her down, at great cost to the hunting party.

At the last, only three of us were left. Two from my brood, one from theirs. One night, we were directed to march to a pass near [REDACTED]. We did as we were told, and we were all tired when we neared our destination, for it was some distance from the previous campsite. As we trudged in silence, a preternaturally loud roar of pain rent the night. A roar that was cut off as suddenly as it began. The trap had been sprung. The master of the other brood had struck, and he was standing over the decapitated carcass of our quarry as we whirled to look. She must have been preparing to pick off another of us, at the place where her chances of survival were the highest. The newly arrived ancient smiled without mirth at the two of us not in his service, for what better opportunity was there to reduce the forces of his ancient foe, our mistress?

He seemed about to attack, but then he frowned, as if in sudden doubt, and then disappeared abruptly from sight. In that same instant, his surviving minion's forehead exploded in a shower of blood and brains. If he had not moved at that instant, that bullet would have claimed him instead.

"Burn all the bodies," our mistress calmly instructed in our headsets, as we instinctively ducked behind cover, looking for snipers. "Ensure no biological trace of us remains. When you have done that, return to your current homes. You have two days."

In my two centuries of unlife, that was the only death of an elder I have witnessed or even heard of. I have killed other fledglings, of course. That is what we do. That is, I am sure, what my sire expects of me. If I can divine their existence, who is to say that mortals will not similarly notice? In the same vein, I know that she will not lift a finger to aid me if another of our kind should learn of my existence and try to destroy me.

Now, to the million dollar question. Why have I written all this? I know for certain that there will come a point in time when my mistress will seek my destruction. It is an inescapable conclusion, for the longer I survive this precarious vampiric existence, the more powerful, cunning and wealthy I will become. At some point I will inevitably grow impossible to safely control. She knows that I will arrive at this conclusion, and that I will hence be preparing for that day. Finally, I know that I am not yet ready to test her again, hence this document. The document you are reading, along with others that point to evidence of our existence, currently reside in an app in my smart phone. At a single touch, I can broadcast this to law enforcement agencies as well as publish it on various social media platforms. This also operates on a dead man's switch. Furthermore, I carry with me at all times an incendiary grenade, so that if I ever sense that my sire is preparing to move against me, I will publicly immolate myself.

If you are reading this, dear mortal stranger, it is in your best interest to send this to as many people as you can. You cannot imagine how wide and deep the reach of the ancient ones is. Their wealth is fabulous beyond comprehension, and many powerful mortals are in thrall to them. If too few have access to this document, they will move to silence those who do. If the number of people who possess copies of this is too great, another strategy will have to be adopted.

You have been warned.
