# Why Game of Thrones Sucks

First of all, let me state that this is an opinion post. If you like fiction for different reasons than I do, the world will continue to spin, the moon will still orbit the earth, and the sun will still shine. People have different tastes. Get over it. Now that I have gotten that out of the way, let me just state that I _hate_ Game of Thrones. There are a number of reasons for this, but we will get back to this. Instead, let me segue into what makes me like a piece of fiction.

One of the attributes that makes me like a story is the good development of an interesting central idea. What constitutes an interesting central idea? Well, I tend to find this most in [hard science fiction](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hard_science_fiction). My favourite hard science fiction novel of all time is _Blindsight_, by Peter Watts. The full text of the novel is available [here](http://www.rifters.com/real/Blindsight.htm). The central hypothesis posed by the story is that sentience, or consciousness, is actually an evolutionary disadvantage. It then goes on to explore that premise by pitting its protagonists against alien intelligences that lack self-awareness. Along the way, the author also introduces and explores many other ideas with rare creativity and ingenuity. The ideas come so thick and fast in Blindsight that the fact that none of the protagonists are at all sympathetic characters become unimportant. Seriously, go read it if you like hard (and believe me, this is [_really hard_](http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/MohsScaleOfScienceFictionHardness)) science fiction and prepare to have your mind blown. Anyway, while the most interesting ideas for me are usually found in science fiction, this is mostly because I am a science geek. There are interesting ideas that get developed in fantasy too. For example, Max Gladstone's [Craft Sequence](https://www.goodreads.com/series/91029-craft-sequence). This series uses gods, i.e. entities of immense complexity and power, as a metaphor for megacorporations. Or was it the other way around? I am not really sure. Anyway, the series explores this premise with unusual rigour for the fantasy genre, and I think it did a really good job.

So, what counts as good development? Well, the most basic requirement is internal consistency. Suspension of disbelief is essential for enjoying a good story, and it is very difficult to suspend disbelief when the story keeps jarring you by breaking the rules it has previously established. However, a story can be internally consistent and still be boring if everything that happens within it is predictable. For an idea-based story to be internally consistent and still be interesting, the author needs to be able to surprise the reader with unusual consequences or conclusions. For example, I thought that the machine rebellion in the [I, Robot](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/I,_Robot_(film\)) movie, given the Laws of Robotics established in-universe, was pretty neatly executed.

The other attribute that makes a story a good one to me is the presence of demigods. I need big, goddamned heroes. By that, I do not mean that they have to actually be [Physical Gods](http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/PhysicalGod), although that also works sometimes. No, my heroes can be entirely human and flawed, but they also need to be, in some aspect, extraordinary. They could be extraordinarily honourable, courageous, or just possess great resolve. Characters written by my (sadly deceased) favourite author of heroic fantasy, [David Gemmell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Gemmell), would be good examples of these. They are always flawed, and they are usually either young and untried or old and scarred, but when they face their greatest tests, they invariably stand tall, at great personal cost, even unto death. Gemmell sometimes makes you slog a bit in the early parts of the story, but the emotional reward is usually worth it. I have introduced Gemmell to a number of people, with varying results, so YMMV, but Gemmell's characters were a great influence to me during my formative years.

With that in mind, it should be easy to see why I hate GoT. Is there an interesting idea behind it all? Nope. It is pretty much run of the mill there is some Great Enemy or Time of Evil in a Here There Be Dragons setting. Are there big, goddamned heroes? Nope. The characters are either bloody idiots (the Starks), snivelling schemers (Littlefinger) or raving lunatics (Joffrey). The only characters I sort of liked (Khal Drogo, The Red Viper) were randomly killed. A lot of fans of the series object that the random deaths keep the story realistic, and I do not disagree, because good people and likeable badasses die randomly in real life too. However, if the thing that I liked about fiction was its realism, then I would just skip the story and go right to real life itself. When I consume fiction, I desire entertainment and inspiration. I do not desire a bloody history lesson. Come to think of it, that is a pretty good description of GoT, really.

It is basically a history lesson about stuff that never happened.
